README.md, before:

# RustPOSIX [![Build Status](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/actions/workflows/lind-selfhost.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/actions/workflows/lind-selfhost.yml)

# Table of Contents
- [RustPOSIX ](#rustposix-)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Development Guideline](#development-guideline)
  - [Run RustPOSIX-Rust](#run-rustposix-rust)
  - [Test RustPOSIX-Rust](#test-rustposix-rust)
  - [FAQs](#faqs)

RustPOSIX refers to a library operating system (libOS) built using the Rust programming language as part of the Lind project.
It is a component of the Lind sandbox that provides a subset of the POSIX API (for things like networking, file I/O, etc.) to applications running within the Google Native Client (NaCl) sandbox. leveraging Rust's memory safety and concurrency safety guarantees to provide a secure implementation of OS functionality.

More implementation details could be found at [wiki](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/wiki).

![alt text](docs/RustPOSIX-README.jpg)


## Development Guideline

- All PRs should be merged to the Develop branch

- Any imports from the standard library or any crates should be done in an interface file

More detailed guideline will be in [RustPOSIX's wiki](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/wiki/Style-Guide)

## Run RustPOSIX-Rust

Quick start
Use Develop branch for the most stable behaviour.
```
docker build -t --platform <your platform> <image_name> .devcontainer
docker run -it <image_name>

```
This will create a quick container with rustposix build at your local changes.
helpful for exploration and easy testing.


See reference at [Run RustPOSIX Independently](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/wiki/Run-Independently)


## Test RustPOSIX-Rust

Use Develop branch for the most stable behaviour.

```
cargo build
cargo test --lib
```

Overview of Tests being run:

1) fs_tests

   The fs_tests.rs file contains a test suite function test_fs(), which runs a series of tests related to file system operations.

2) ipc_tests

   These tests aim to validate the proper functioning of different Inter-Process Communication (IPC) mechanisms within the Lind Rust environment. They ensure that data can be transmitted and received accurately, and that system calls such as `fork`, `pipe`, `bind`, `listen`, `accept`, `send`, and `recv` behave as intended. Additionally, the tests verify that the system handles process termination correctly.

3) networking_tests

    The `networking_tests.rs` file contains a single function called `net_tests()`. This function serves as a test suite, running a series of tests that validate various networking operations within the system under test.

See reference at [Testing and Debugging](https://github.com/Lind-Project/safeposix-rust/wiki/Testing-and-Debugging)

## FAQs

1) If you encounter the net device couldn't find error, follow these steps:
   1) RUN ./gen_netdevs.sh - This script will generate or configure the necessary network devices for your application.
2) If you encounter access denied/ permissions error:
   1) RUN chmod +x gen_netdevs.sh - Giving executable permissions.
3) If you encounter any test failures with respect to networking tests
   1) something similar to below - potential reasons could be binding issues as the tests create sockets very quickly.
   ```
    src/tests/networking_tests.rs:77:9:
   ```

Commit message:

updates to debugging section
Signed-off-by: Yashaswi Makula <yashaswi.makula@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# RustPOSIX [![Build Status](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/actions/workflows/lind-selfhost.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/actions/workflows/lind-selfhost.yml)

# Table of Contents

- [RustPOSIX ](#rustposix-)
- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Development Guideline](#development-guideline)
  - [Run RustPOSIX-Rust](#run-rustposix-rust)
  - [Test RustPOSIX-Rust](#test-rustposix-rust)
  - [Debugging](#debugging)
  - [FAQs](#faqs)

RustPOSIX refers to a library operating system (libOS) built using the Rust programming language as part of the Lind project.
It is a component of the Lind sandbox that provides a subset of the POSIX API (for things like networking, file I/O, etc.) to applications running within the Google Native Client (NaCl) sandbox. leveraging Rust's memory safety and concurrency safety guarantees to provide a secure implementation of OS functionality.

More implementation details could be found at [wiki](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/wiki).

![alt text](docs/RustPOSIX-README.jpg)

## Development Guideline

- All PRs should be merged to the Develop branch

- Any imports from the standard library or any crates should be done in an interface file

More detailed guideline will be in [RustPOSIX's wiki](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/wiki/Style-Guide)

## Run RustPOSIX-Rust

Quick start
Use Develop branch for the most stable behaviour.

```
docker build -t --platform <your platform> <image_name> .devcontainer
docker run -it <image_name>

```

This will create a quick container with rustposix build at your local changes.
helpful for exploration and easy testing.

See reference at [Run RustPOSIX Independently](https://github.com/Lind-Project/RustPOSIX-rust/wiki/Run-Independently)

## Test RustPOSIX-Rust

Use Develop branch for the most stable behaviour.

```
cargo build
cargo test --lib
```

Overview of Tests being run:

1) fs_tests

   The fs_tests.rs file contains a test suite function test_fs(), which runs a series of tests related to file system operations.

2) ipc_tests

   These tests aim to validate the proper functioning of different Inter-Process Communication (IPC) mechanisms within the Lind Rust environment. They ensure that data can be transmitted and received accurately, and that system calls such as `fork`, `pipe`, `bind`, `listen`, `accept`, `send`, and `recv` behave as intended. Additionally, the tests verify that the system handles process termination correctly.

3) networking_tests

    The `networking_tests.rs` file contains a single function called `net_tests()`. This function serves as a test suite, running a series of tests that validate various networking operations within the system under test.

See reference at [Testing and Debugging](https://github.com/Lind-Project/safeposix-rust/wiki/Testing-and-Debugging)

## Debugging

To debug, you should follow these steps:

1) Run the cargo test command to execute the test suite. This will compile and run all the tests in your project.
2) After the tests have completed, observe the output at the top. You will see a path starting with target/ followed by additional directories and the name of the test binary.
3) Copy the entire path displayed in the output.
4) Once the recording is complete, run the rr replay command to start the debugging session:

    ```
    rr replay
    ```

5) For instance, if you want to debug one of the tests in the net_tests() function, you can set a breakpoint at the start of that test function.

## FAQs

1) If you encounter the net device couldn't find error, follow these steps:
   1) RUN ./gen_netdevs.sh - This script will generate or configure the necessary network devices for your application.
2) If you encounter access denied/ permissions error:
   1) RUN chmod +x gen_netdevs.sh - Giving executable permissions.
3) If you encounter any test failures with respect to networking tests
   1) something similar to below - potential reasons could be binding issues as the tests create sockets very quickly.

   ```
    src/tests/networking_tests.rs:77:9:
   ```
